index.rst, before:

Forward
=======

Background
----------

In 2008 we launched the `Gentle Introduction to GIS
<http://linfiniti.com/dla>`_, a completely free, open content resource for
people who want to learn about GIS without being overloaded with Jargon and new
terminology. The was sponsored by the South African government and has been a
phenomenal success, with people all over the world writing to us to tell us how
they are using the materials to run University Training Courses, teach
themselves GIS and so on. The Gentle Introduction is not a software tutorial,
but rather aims to be a generic text (although we used QGIS in all examples)
for someone learning about GIS. There is also the QGIS manual which provides a
detailed functional overview of the QGIS application, but it is not structured
as a tutorial, but rather as a reference guide. At Linfiniti Consulting CC. we
frequently run training courses and have realised that a third resource is
needed - one that leads the reader sequentially through learning the key
aspects of QGIS in a trainer-trainee format - which prompted us to produce this
work.

This training manual is intended to provide all the materials needed to run a 5
day course on QGIS, PostgreSQL and PostGIS. The course is structured with
content to suit novice, intermediate and advanced users alike and has many
exercises complete with annotated answers throughout the text.

License
-------

We have published this QGIS training manual under a liberal license that allows
you to freely copy, modify and redistribute this work. A complete copy of the 
license is available at the end of this document. In simple terms the usage
guidelines are as follows:

* You may not represent this work as your own work, or remove any authorship
  text or credits from this work.
* You may not redistribute this work under more restrictive permissions than
  those under which it was provided to you.
* If you add a substantitive portion to the work and contribute it back to the
  project (at least one complete module) you may add your name to the end of the
  authors list for this document (which will appear on the front page)
* If you contribute minor changes and corrections you may add yourself to the 
  contributors list below.
* If you translate this document in it's entirety, you may add your name to the 
  authors list in the form "Translated by Joe blogs".
* If you sponsor a module or lesson, you may request the author to include an
  acknowledgement in the beginning of each lesson contributed e.g.

.. note:: This lesson was sponsored by MegaCorp.

* If you are unsure about what you may do under this license, please contact us
  at office@linfiniti.com and we will advice you if what you intend doing is
  acceptible.
* If you publish this work under a self publishing site such as http:://lulu.com
  we request that you donate the profits to the QGIS project.
* You may not commercialise this work, except with the expressed permission of the
  authors. To be clear, by commercialisation we mean that you may not sell for
  profit, create commercial derivative works (e.g. selling content for use as
  articles in a magazine). The exception to this is if all the profits are
  given to the QGIS project. You may (and we encourage you to do so) use this
  work as a text book when conducting training courses, even if the course
  itself is commercial in nature. In other words, you are welcome to make money
  by running a training course that uses this work as a text book, but you
  may not profit off the sales of the book itself - all such profits should be
  contributed back to QGIS.


Sponsoring Chapters
-------------------

This work is by no means a complete treatise on all the things you can do with
QGIS and we encourage others to add new materials to fill any gaps. Linfiniti
Consulting CC. can also create additional materials for you as a commercial
service, with the understanding that all such works produced should become part
of the core content and be published under the same license.

Authors
-------

* Rudi Thiede (rudi@linfiniti.com) - Rudi has written the QGIS instructional
  materials and parts of the PostGIS materials.
* Tim Sutton (tim@linfiniti.com) - Tim has overseen and guided the project and
  co-authored the PostgreSQL and PostGIS parts. Tim also authored the custom
  sphinx theme used for this manual.
* Horst Düster (horst.duester@kappasys.ch ) - Horst co-authored the PostgreSQL
  and PostGIS parts
* Marcelle Sutton (marcelle@linfiniti.com) - Marcelle provided proof reading
  and editorial advice during the creation of this work.

Contributors
------------

Your name here!


Data
----

The sample data that accompanies this resource is freely available and comes
from the following sources:



Tim Sutton, May 2012

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   introduction/index
   basic_map/index
   vector_classification/index
   map_composer/index
   create_vector_data/index
   vector_analysis/index
   rasters/index
   complete_analysis/index
   qgis_plugins/index
   online_resources/index
   grass/index
   assessment/index
   postgres/index
   postgis/index

   answers/answers

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Added links to read the docs

index.rst, after:

Forward
=======

Background
----------

In 2008 we launched the `Gentle Introduction to GIS
<http://linfiniti.com/dla>`_, a completely free, open content resource for
people who want to learn about GIS without being overloaded with Jargon and new
terminology. The was sponsored by the South African government and has been a
phenomenal success, with people all over the world writing to us to tell us how
they are using the materials to run University Training Courses, teach
themselves GIS and so on. The Gentle Introduction is not a software tutorial,
but rather aims to be a generic text (although we used QGIS in all examples)
for someone learning about GIS. There is also the QGIS manual which provides a
detailed functional overview of the QGIS application, but it is not structured
as a tutorial, but rather as a reference guide. At Linfiniti Consulting CC. we
frequently run training courses and have realised that a third resource is
needed - one that leads the reader sequentially through learning the key
aspects of QGIS in a trainer-trainee format - which prompted us to produce this
work.

This training manual is intended to provide all the materials needed to run a 5
day course on QGIS, PostgreSQL and PostGIS. The course is structured with
content to suit novice, intermediate and advanced users alike and has many
exercises complete with annotated answers throughout the text.

License
-------

.. image:: _static/license.png 
The Free Quantum GIS Training Manual by Linfiniti Consulting CC. is licensed
under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
License.  Based on a work at https://github.com/qgis/QGIS-Training-Manual.
Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available at
https://github.com/qgis/QGIS-Training-Manual/blob/master/index.rst.

We have published this QGIS training manual under a liberal license that allows
you to freely copy, modify and redistribute this work. A complete copy of the 
license is available at the end of this document. In simple terms the usage
guidelines are as follows:

* You may not represent this work as your own work, or remove any authorship
  text or credits from this work.
* You may not redistribute this work under more restrictive permissions than
  those under which it was provided to you.
* If you add a substantitive portion to the work and contribute it back to the
  project (at least one complete module) you may add your name to the end of the
  authors list for this document (which will appear on the front page)
* If you contribute minor changes and corrections you may add yourself to the 
  contributors list below.
* If you translate this document in it's entirety, you may add your name to the 
  authors list in the form "Translated by Joe blogs".
* If you sponsor a module or lesson, you may request the author to include an
  acknowledgement in the beginning of each lesson contributed e.g.

.. note:: This lesson was sponsored by MegaCorp.

* If you are unsure about what you may do under this license, please contact us
  at office@linfiniti.com and we will advice you if what you intend doing is
  acceptible.
* If you publish this work under a self publishing site such as http:://lulu.com
  we request that you donate the profits to the QGIS project.
* You may not commercialise this work, except with the expressed permission of the
  authors. To be clear, by commercialisation we mean that you may not sell for
  profit, create commercial derivative works (e.g. selling content for use as
  articles in a magazine). The exception to this is if all the profits are
  given to the QGIS project. You may (and we encourage you to do so) use this
  work as a text book when conducting training courses, even if the course
  itself is commercial in nature. In other words, you are welcome to make money
  by running a training course that uses this work as a text book, but you
  may not profit off the sales of the book itself - all such profits should be
  contributed back to QGIS.


Sponsoring Chapters
-------------------

This work is by no means a complete treatise on all the things you can do with
QGIS and we encourage others to add new materials to fill any gaps. Linfiniti
Consulting CC. can also create additional materials for you as a commercial
service, with the understanding that all such works produced should become part
of the core content and be published under the same license.

Authors
-------

* Rudi Thiede (rudi@linfiniti.com) - Rudi has written the QGIS instructional
  materials and parts of the PostGIS materials.
* Tim Sutton (tim@linfiniti.com) - Tim has overseen and guided the project and
  co-authored the PostgreSQL and PostGIS parts. Tim also authored the custom
  sphinx theme used for this manual.
* Horst Düster (horst.duester@kappasys.ch ) - Horst co-authored the PostgreSQL
  and PostGIS parts
* Marcelle Sutton (marcelle@linfiniti.com) - Marcelle provided proof reading
  and editorial advice during the creation of this work.

Contributors
------------

Your name here!


Data
----

The sample data that accompanies this resource is freely available and comes
from the following sources:


Latest Version
--------------

You can always obtain the latest version of this document by visiting our `home
page <http://readthedocs.org/builds/the-free-qgis-training-manual/>`_ which is
kindly hosted by http://readthedocs.org.

.. note:: There are links to PDF and epub versions of the documentation in the
   lower right hand corner of the above mentioned home page.



Tim Sutton, May 2012

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:

   introduction/index
   basic_map/index
   vector_classification/index
   map_composer/index
   create_vector_data/index
   vector_analysis/index
   rasters/index
   complete_analysis/index
   qgis_plugins/index
   online_resources/index
   grass/index
   assessment/index
   postgres/index
   postgis/index

   answers/answers

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
