map_composer/day_1_assignment.rst, before:

Assignment 1
===============================================================================

Open your existing map project and revise it thoroughly. If you have noticed
small errors or things you'd have liked to fix earlier, do so now.

If you are following this course at a *Basic* or *Intermediate* level, try to
understand and implement techniques taught at a higher level.

While customizing your map, keep asking yourself questions. Is this map easy
to read and understand for someone who's unfamiliar with the data? If I saw
this map on the Internet, or on a poster, or in a magazine, would it capture my
attention? Would I want to read this map if it wasn't mine?

If this course is being presented to you, the course presenter may require you
to submit a final version of your map, exported to PDF, for evaluation.  Your
map will be evaluated on the overall appearance and symbology of the map
itself, as well as the appearance and layout of the map page and elements.
Remember that the emphasis for evaluating the appearance of maps will always be
*ease of use*. The nicer the map is to look at and the easier it is to
understand at a glance, the better.

Happy customizing! :)

Commit message:

added module components for 'Creating Vector Data' and 'Vector Analysis'

map_composer/day_1_assignment.rst, after:

Assignment 1
===============================================================================

Open your existing map project and revise it thoroughly. If you have noticed
small errors or things you'd have liked to fix earlier, do so now.

If you are following this course at a *Basic* or *Intermediate* level, try to
understand and implement techniques taught at a higher level.

While customizing your map, keep asking yourself questions. Is this map easy
to read and understand for someone who's unfamiliar with the data? If I saw
this map on the Internet, or on a poster, or in a magazine, would it capture my
attention? Would I want to read this map if it wasn't mine?

If this course is being presented to you, the course presenter may require you
to submit a final version of your map, exported to PDF, for evaluation. If
you're doing this course by yourself, it's recommended that you evaluate your
own map using the same criteria. Your map will be evaluated on the overall
appearance and symbology of the map itself, as well as the appearance and
layout of the map page and elements.  Remember that the emphasis for evaluating
the appearance of maps will always be *ease of use*. The nicer the map is to
look at and the easier it is to understand at a glance, the better.

Happy customizing! :)

|IC|
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The first four modules have taught you how to create and style a vector map. In
the next four modules, you'll learn how to use QGIS for a complete GIS
analysis. This will include creating and editing vector data; analyzing vector
data; using and analyzing raster data; and using GIS to solve a problem from
start to finish, using both raster and vector data sources.
